den- the bar- a rude attempt at a right whale's head. Be that how it
may, there stands the vast arched bone of the whale's jaw, so wide,
a coach might almost drive beneath it. Within are shabby shelves,

of chewed boats, and the sinking limbs of torn comrades, they swam out
of the white curds of the whale's direful wrath into the serene,
exasperating sunlight, that smiled on, as if at a birth or a bridal.
  His three boats stove around him, and oars and men both whirling

  Stubb, firmly planting his knee in the clumsy cleat, darted dart after
dart into the flying fish; at the word of command, the boat
alternately sterning out of the way of the whale's horrible wallow,
and then ranging up for another fling.
  The red tide now poured from all sides of the monster like brooks
down a hill. His tormented body rolled not in brine but in blood,
which bubbled and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake. The

mere part of whose mere integument yields such a lake of liquid as
that. Reckoning ten barrels to the ton, you have ten tons for the
net weight of only three quarters of the stuff of the whale's skin.
  In life, the visible surface of the Sperm Whale is not the least
among the many marvels he presents. Almost invariably it is all over
obliquely crossed and re-crossed with numberless straight marks in

would fancy to be a young colt's eye; so out of all proportion is it
to the magnitude of the head.
  Now, from this peculiar sideway position of the whale's eyes, it
is plain that he can never see an object which is exactly ahead, no
more than he can one exactly astern. In a word, the position of the
whale's eyes corresponds to that of a man's ears; and you may fancy,
for yourself, how it would fare with you, did you sideways survey
objects through your ears. You would find that you could only
command some thirty degrees of vision in advance of the straight
side-line of sight; and about thirty more behind it. If your bitterest
foe were walking straight towards you, with dagger uplifted in broad
day, you would not be able to see him, any more than if he were
stealing upon you from behind. In a word, you would have two backs, so
to speak; but, at the same time, also, two fronts (side fronts): for
what is it that makes the front of a man- what, indeed, but his eyes?
  Moreover, while in most other animals that I can now think of, the
eyes are so planted as imperceptibly to blend their visual power, so
as to produce one picture and not two to the brain; the peculiar
position of the whale's eyes, effectually divided as they are by
many cubic feet of solid head, which towers between them like a
great mountain separating two lakes in valleys; this, of course,


joined sashes for his window. But with the whale, these two sashes are
separately inserted, making two distinct windows, but sadly
impairing the view. This peculiarity of the whale's eyes is a thing
always to be borne in mind in the fishery; and to be remembered by the
reader in some subsequent scenes.
  A curious and most puzzling question might be started concerning

  fancies concerning these blinds. One voyager in Purchas calls them the
wondrous "whiskers" inside of the whale's mouth;* another, "hogs'
bristles"; a third old gentleman in Hackluyt uses the following
elegant language: "There are about two hundred and fifty fins

considered along with the affirmative fact of his prodigious bulk
and power, you can best form to yourself the truest, though not the
most exhilarating conception of what the most exalted potency is.
  But if from the comparative dimensions of the whale's proper
brain, you deem it incapable of being adequately charted, then I
have another idea for you. If you attentively regard almost any

their barbs; and darted over the head of the German harpooneer,
their three Nantucket irons entered the whale. Blinding vapors of foam
and white-fire! The three boats, in the first fury of the whale's
headlong rush, bumped the German's aside with such force, that both
Derick and his baffled harpooneer were spilled out, and sailed over by
the three flying keels.

do you know that they are not those identical drops superficially
lodged in the spout-hole fissure, which is countersunk into the summit
of the whale's head? For even when tranquilly swimming through the
mid-day sea in a calm, with his elevated hump sun-dried as a
dromedary's in the desert; even then, the whale always carries a s

of his body are tossed erect in the air, and so remain vibrating a
moment, till they downwards shoot out of view. Excepting the sublime
breach- somewhere else to be described- this peaking of the whale's
flukes is perhaps the grandest sight to be seen in all animated
nature. Out of the bottomless profundities the gigantic tail seems
spasmodically snatching at the highest heaven. So in dreams, have I


  Plum-pudding is the term bestowed upon certain fragmentary parts
of the whale's flesh, here and there adhering to the blanket of
blubber, and often participating to a considerable degree in its
unctuousness. It is a most refreshing, convivial, beautiful object

  In the sperm fishery, this is perhaps one of the most remarkable
incidents in all the business of whaling. One day the planks stream
with freshets of blood and oil; on the sacred quarter-deck enormous
masses of the whale's head are profanely piled; great rusty casks
lie about, as in a brewery yard; the smoke from the try-works has
besooted all the bulwarks; the mariners go about suffused with
unctuousness; the entire ship seems great leviathan himself; while
on all hands the din is deafening.

  CHAPTER 103
  Measurement of The Whale's Skeleton

  In the first place, I wish to lay before you a particular, plain
statement, touching the living bulk of this leviathan, whose
skeleton we are briefly to exhibit. Such a statement may prove
useful here.

there she blows! There again!- there again!" he cried, in
long-drawn, lingering, methodic tones, attuned to the gradual
prolongings of the whale's visible jets. "He's going to sound! In
stunsails! Down top-gallant-sails! Stand by three boats. Mr. Starbuck,
remember, stay on board, and keep the ship. Helm there! Luff, luff a
point! So; steady, man, steady! There go flukes! No, no; only black
water! All ready the boats there? Stand by, stand by! Lower me, Mr.
Starbuck; lower, lower,- quick, quicker!" and he slid through the
air to the deck.

as the blood of grapes and mulberries cast before Antiochus's
elephants in the book of Maccabees. Meanwhile Ahab half smothered in
the foam of the whale's insolent tail, and too much of a cripple to
swim,- though he could still keep afloat, even in the heart of such
a whirlpool as that; helpless Ahab's head was seen, like a tossed
bubble which the least chance shock might burst. From the boat's
fragmentary stern, Fedallah incuriously and mildly eved him; the
clinging crew, at the other drifting end, could not succor him; more
than enough was it for them to look to themselves