teeth of the sperm whale, inserted there for pins, to fasten her old
will triumphantly plant the sperm whale-ship at least among the
of the sperm whale's vast tail, fanning into eddies the air over his
polished bone of the sperm whale's jaw. "Aye, he was dismasted off
touching the sperm whale to be found in their volumes is necessarily
As the type of the FOLIO I present the Sperm Whale; of the OCTAVO,
the sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper
the sperm whale also has a hump though a smaller one. His oil is not
When not more profitably employed, the sperm whale hunters sometimes
frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen. But not all of them knew of
must have been no other than Moby Dick. Yet as of late the Sperm Whale
of the Sperm Whale fishery at large, than to the individual cause.
incompetency, or timidity, decline a contest with the Sperm Whale;
hostilely encountered the Sperm Whale, but whose sole knowledge of the
naturalists- Olassen and Povelson- declaring the Sperm Whale not
Baron himself affirms that at sight of the Sperm Whale, all fish
earlier days of the Sperm Whale fishery, when it was oftentimes hard
at such an apparition as the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man.
and thereby calculating the driftings of the sperm whale's food;
collated, then the migrations of the sperm whale would be found to
construct elaborate migratory charts of the sperm whale.*
the sperm whales, guided by some infallible instinct- say, rather,
Secondly: It is well known in the Sperm Whale Fishery, however
unbelief by a similar fright? I tell you, the sperm whale will stand
to me, of the great power and malice at times of the sperm whale. In
observed that, if the sperm whale, once struck, is allowed time to
tell you why. For a long time I fancied that the sperm whale had
instances of the presence of the sperm whale in the Mediterranean. I
The Sperm Whale blows as a clock ticks, with the same undeviating
the Sperm Whale when, sounding with his head in one direction, he
he gives what he calls a picture of the Sperm Whale. Before showing
the Sperm Whale drawings in J. Ross Browne are pretty correct in
Whatever superstitions the sperm whalemen in general have
it to furnish to the sperm whale his only food. For though other
and that the sperm whale, unlike other species, is supplied with teeth
substance the entire interior of the sperm whale's enormous head
particular part of the Sperm Whale designated by Stubb; comprising the
In life, the visible surface of the Sperm Whale is not the least
exterior of the Sperm Whale presents, he not seldom displays the back,
rocks must not a little resemble the Sperm Whale in this particular.
beheading of the Sperm Whale is a scientific anatomical feat, upon
multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale's
steeply leaned over towards the sperm whale's head, now, by the
The Sperm Whale's Head - Contrasted View
Of the grand order of folio leviathans, the Sperm Whale and the
is a certain mathematical symmetry in the Sperm Whale's which the
be observed between the sperm whale and the right. While the ears of
cant over the sperm whale's head, so, that it may lie bottom up; then,
with- that the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale have almost entirely
mandible of a lower jaw, like the Sperm Whale's. Nor in the Sperm
spout-holes, the Sperm Whale only one.
Can you catch the expression of the Sperm Whale's there? It is the
been a Stoic; the Sperm Whale, a Platonian, who might have taken up
Ere quitting, for the nonce, the Sperm Whale's head, I would have
have perceived that the front of the Sperm Whale's head is a dead,
or contraction; and as the Sperm Whale, as far as I know, has no
this; that though the Sperm Whale stove a passage through the
Regarding the Sperm Whale's head as a solid oblong, you may, on an
the great Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale. And as that famous great
It will have been seen that the Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale
curb of the Sperm Whale's well.
thought the tissued, infiltrated head of the Sperm Whale, was the
Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature.
to be had of the Sperm Whale, is that of the full front of his head.
But how? Genius in the Sperm Whale? Has the Sperm Whale ever written
Nile, because the crocodile is tongueless; and the Sperm Whale has
to read the awful Chaldee of the Sperm Whale's brow? I but put that
If the Sperm Whale be physiognomically a Sphinx, to the phrenologist
who peremptorily deny that the Sperm Whale has any other brain than
Apply this spinal branch of phrenology to the Sperm Whale. His
the Sperm Whale's hump. This august hump, if I mistake not, rises over
Be it said, however, that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this
a ton; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free. But there
spout is so similar to the Sperm Whale's, that by unskilful
attitude, the Sperm Whale's mouth is buried at least eight feet
unmolested, upon rising to the surface, the Sperm Whale will
the Sperm Whale only breathes about one seventh or Sunday of his time.
nevertheless, that the Sperm Whale has no proper olfactories. But what
Now, the spouting canal of the Sperm Whale, chiefly intended as it
spout of the Sperm Whale is the mere vapor of the exhaled breath, or
measureless crush and crash of the sperm whale's ponderous flukes,
and there by the Sperm Whale, sweep inshore by the Philippine Islands,
aggregation of the Sperm Whale into such immense caravans, may be
forward-slanting spout of the Sperm Whale presents a thick curled bush
presumed wonderful instinct of the Sperm Whale, become notified of the
*The sperm whale, as with all other species of the Leviathan, but
in a warm parlor. What then shall I liken the Sperm Whale to for
akin to it, in the business of preparing the sperm whale for the
Hitherto, in descriptively treating of the Sperm Whale, I have
In length, the Sperm Whale's skeleton at Tranque measured
hunting the Sperm Whales for forty-eight months think they have done
gradual extinction of the Sperm Whale, for example, that in former
*This motion is peculiar to the sperm whale. It receives its
utmost velocity from the furthest depths, the Sperm Whale thus booms