each was separately touched by some specific recollection.
  "Captain Ahab," said Tashtego, "that white whale must be the same
that some call Moby Dick."
  "Moby Dick?" shouted Ahab. "Do ye know the white whale then, Tash?"
  "Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he goes down?"
said the Gay-Header deliberately.
  "And has he a curious spout, too," said Daggoo, "very bushy, even
for a parmacetty, and mighty quick, Captain Ahab?"
  "And he have one, two, three- oh! good many iron in him hide, too,
Captain," cried Queequeg disjointedly, "all twiske-tee be-twisk,
earth, till he spouts black blood and rolls fin out. What say ye, men,
will ye splice hands on it, now? I think ye do look brave."
  "Aye, aye!" shouted the harpooneers and seamen, running closer to
the excited old man: "A sharp eye for the white whale; a sharp lance
for Moby Dick!"
  "God bless ye," he seemed to half sob and half shout. "God bless ye,
men. Steward! go draw the great measure of grog. But what's this
long face about, Mr. Starbuck; wilt thou not chase the white whale!
art not game for Moby Dick?"
  "I am game for his crooked jaw, and for the jaws of Death too,
Captain Ahab, if it fairly comes in the way of the business we follow;
but I came here to hunt whales, not my commander's vengeance. How many
reach outside except by thrusting through the wall? To me, the white
whale is that wall, shoved near to me. Sometimes I think there's
naught beyond. But 'tis enough. He tasks me; he heaps me; I see in him
outrageous strength, with an inscrutable malice sinewing it. That
inscrutable thing is chiefly what I hate; and be the white whale
agent, or be the white whale principal, I will wreak that hate upon
him. Talk not to me of blasphemy, man; I'd strike the sun if it
insulted me. For could the sun do that, then could I do the other;
since there is ever a sort of fair play herein, jealousy presiding
jib-stay! Blang-whang! God! Duck lower, Pip, here comes the royal
yard! It's worse than being in the whirled woods, the last day of
the year! Who'd go climbing after chestnuts now? But there they go,
all cursing, and here I don't. Fine prospects to 'em; they're on the
road to heaven. Hold on hard! Jimmini, what a squall! But those
chaps there are worse yet- they are your white squalls, they. White
squalls? white whale, shirr! shirr! Here have I heard all their chat
just now, and the white whale- shirr! shirr!- but spoken of once!
and only this evening- it makes me ingle all over like my
tambourine- that anaconda of an old man swore 'em in to hunt him!
Oh! thou big white God aloft there somewhere in yon darkness, have
mercy on this small black boy down here; preserve him from all men
that have no bowels to feel fear!
  CHAPTER 41
  Moby Dick
of the Sperm Whale fishery at large, than to the individual cause.
In that way, mostly, the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the
whale had hitherto been popularly regarded.
  And as for those who, previously hearing of the White Whale, by
chance caught sight of him; in the beginning of the thing they had
every one of them, almost, as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him,
as for any other whale of that species. But at length, such calamities
did ensue in these assaults- not restricted to sprained wrists and
ankles, broken limbs, or devouring amputations- but fatal to the
last degree of fatality; those repeated disastrous repulses, all
accumulating and piling their terrors upon Moby Dick; those things had
gone far to shake the fortitude of many brave hunters, to whom the
story of the White Whale had eventually come.
  Nor did wild rumors of all sorts fail to exaggerate, and still the
more horrify the true histories of these deadly encounters. For not
only do fabulous rumors naturally grow out of the very body of all
calling as he does, the whaleman is wrapped by influences all
tending to make his fancy pregnant with many a mighty birth. No
wonder, then, that ever gathering volume from the mere transit over
the wildest watery spaces, the outblown rumors of the White Whale
did in the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints,
and half-formed foetal suggestions of supernatural agencies, which
eventually invested Moby Dick with new terrors unborrowed from
anything that visibly appears. So that in many cases such a panic
did he finally strike, that few who by those rumors, at least, had
heard of the White Whale, few of those hunters were willing to
encounter the perils of his jaw.
  But there were still other and more vital practical influences at
work. Nor even at the present day has the original prestige of the
Sperm Whale, as fearfully distinguished from all other species of
the leviathan, died out of the minds of the whalemen as a body.
  One of the wild suggestions referred to, as at last coming to be
linked with the White Whale in the minds of the superstitiously
inclined, was the unearthly conceit that Moby Dick was ubiquitous;
that he had actually been encountered in opposite latitudes at one and
the same instant of time.
  Forced into familiarity, then, with such prodigies as these; and
knowing that after repeated, intrepid assaults, the White Whale had
escaped alive; it cannot be much matter of surprise that some whalemen
should go still further in their superstitions; declaring Moby Dick
not only ubiquitous, but immortal (for immortality is but ubiquity
in time); that though groves of spears should be planted in his
flanks, he would still swim away unharmed; or if indeed he should ever
be made to spout thick blood, such a sight would be but a ghastly
deception; for again in unensanguined billows hundreds of leagues
away, his unsullied jet would once more be seen.
  But even stripped of these supernatural surmisings, there was enough
in the earthly make and incontestable character of the monster to
strike the imagination with unwonted power. For, it was not so much
his uncommon bulk that so much distinguished him from other sperm
whales, but, as was elsewhere thrown out- a peculiar snow-white
wrinkled forehead, and a high, pyramidical white hump. These were
his prominent features; the tokens whereby, even in the limitless,
uncharted seas, he revealed his identity, at a long distance, to those
who knew him.
  The rest of his body was so streaked, and spotted, and marbled
with the same shrouded hue, that, in the end, he had gained his
distinctive appellation of the White Whale; a name, indeed,
literally justified by his vivid aspect, when seen gliding at high
noon through a dark blue sea, leaving a milky-way wake of creamy foam,
all spangled with golden gleamings.
away Ahab's leg, as a mower a blade of grass in the field. No turbaned
Turk, no hired Venetian or Malay, could have smote him with more
seeming malice. Small reason was there to doubt, then, that ever since
that almost fatal encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild
vindictiveness against the whale, all the more fell for that in his
frantic morbidness he at last came to identify with him, not only
all his bodily woes, but all his intellectual and spiritual
exasperations. The White Whale swam before him as the monomaniac
incarnation of all those malicious agencies which some deep men feel
eating in them, till they are left living on with half a heart and
half a lung. That intangible malignity which has been from the
beginning; to whose dominion even the modern Christians ascribe
one-half of the worlds; which the ancient Ophites of the east
reverenced in their statue devil;- Ahab did not fall down and
worship it like them; but deliriously transferring its idea to the
abhorred white whale, he pitted himself, all mutilated, against it.
All that most maddens and torments; all that stirs up the lees of
things; all truth with malice in it; all that cracks the sinews and
mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and keyed in him, Ahab had
purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the one only and
all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale. Had any one of his
old acquaintances on shore but half dreamed of what was lurking in him
then, how soon would their aghast and righteous souls have wrenched
the ship from such a fiendish man! They were bent on profitable
cruises, the profit to be counted down in dollars from the mint. He
was intent on an audacious, immitigable, and supernatural revenge.
  Here, then, was this grey-headed, ungodly old man, chasing with
curses Job's whale round the world, at the head of a crew, too,
chiefly made up of mongrel renegades, and castaways, and cannibals-
morally enfeebled also, by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue
or right-mindedness in Starbuck, the invunerable jollity of
indifference and recklessness in Stubb, and the pervading mediocrity
in Flask. Such a crew, so officered, seemed specially picked and
packed by some infernal fatality to help him to his monomaniac
revenge. How it was that they so aboundingly responded to the old
man's ire- by what evil magic their souls were possessed, that at
times his hate seemed almost theirs; the White Whale as much their
insufferable foe as his; how all this came to be- what the White Whale
was to them, or how to their unconscious understandings, also, in some
dim, unsuspected way, he might have seemed the gliding great demon
  CHAPTER 42
  The Whiteness of The Whale

  What the white whale was to Ahab, has been hinted; what, at times,
he was to me, as yet remains unsaid.
  Aside from those more obvious considerations touching Moby Dick,
which could not but occasionally awaken in any man's soul some
alarm, there was another thought, or rather vague, nameless horror
concerning him, which at times by its intensity completely overpowered
all the rest; and yet so mystical and well nigh ineffable was it, that
sun, in its annual round, loiters for a predicted interval in any
one sign of the Zodiac. There it was, too, that most of the deadly
encounters with the white whale had taken place; there the waves
were storied with his deeds; there also was that tragic spot where the
monomaniac old man had found the awful motive to his vengeance. But in
s very complexion of things. Because, an interval of three
hundred and sixty-five days and nights was before him; an interval
which, instead of impatiently enduring ashore, he would spend in a
miscellaneous hunt; if by chance the White Whale, spending his
vacation in seas far remote from his periodical feeding-grounds,
should turn up his wrinkled brow off the Persian Gulf, or in the me latent weakness, or fright
at his own resolve, were but the plainest tokens of its intensity.
For, at such times, crazy Ahab, the scheming, unappeasedly steadfast
hunter of the white whale; this Ahab that had gone to his hammock, was
not the agent that so caused him to burst from it in horror again. The
latter was the eternal, living principle or soul in him; and in sleep,
being for the time dissociated from the characterizing mind, which
at other times employed it for its outer vehicle or agent, it
f one or two other things, which to me seem important,
as in printed form establishing in all respects the reasonableness
of the whole story of the White Whale, more especially the
catastrophe. For this is one of those disheartening instances where
truth requires full as much bolstering as error. So ignorant are
would joyfully disintegrate himself from it, or even frustrate it.
It might be that a long interval would elapse ere the White Whale
was seen. During that long interval Starbuck would ever be apt to fall
into open relapses of rebellion against his captain's leadership,
unless some ordinary, prudential, circumstantial influences were
brought to bear upon him. Not only that, but the subtle insanity of
Ahab respecting Moby Dick was noways more significantly manifested
than in his superlative sense and shrewdness in foreseeing that, for
the present, the hunt should in some way be stripped of that strange
imaginative impiousness which naturally invested it; that the full
terror of the voyage must be kept withdrawn into the obscure
background (for few men's courage is proof against protracted
meditation unrelieved by action); that when they stood their long
night watches, his officers and men must have some nearer things to
think of than Moby Dick. For however eagerly and impetuously the
savage crew had hailed the announcement of his quest; yet all
sailors of all sorts are more or less capricious and unreliable-
they live in the varying outer weather, and they inhale its
fickleness- and when retained for any object remote and blank in the
pursuit, however promissory of life and passion in the end, it is
above all things requisite that temporary interests and employments
should intervene and hold them healthily suspended for the final dash.
  Nor was Ahab unmindful of another thing. In times of strong
emotion mankind disdain all base considerations; but such times are
evanescent. The permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured
man, thought Ahab, is sordidness. Granting that the White Whale
fully incites the hearts of this my savage crew, and playing round
their savageness even breeds a certain generous knight-errantism in
them, still, while for the love of it they give chase to Moby Dick,
duty and profit hand in hand."
  "Aye, aye, I thought as much," soliloquized Stubb, when the boats
diverged, "as soon as I clapt eye on 'em, I thought so. Aye, and
that's what he went into the after hold for, so often, as Dough-Boy
long suspected. They were hidden down there. The White Whale's at
the bottom of it. Well, well, so be it! Can't be helped! All right!
Give way men! It ain't the White Whale to-day! Give way!"
  Now the advent of these outlandish strangers at such a critical
  depressions of the watery horizon; while at the other end of the
boat Ahab, with one arm, like a fencer's, thrown half backward into
the air, as if to counterbalance any tendency to trip; Ahab was seen
steadily managing his steering oar as in a thousand boat lowerings ere
the White Whale had torn him. All at once the outstretched arm gave
a peculiar motion and then remained fixed, while the boat's five
oars were seen simultaneously peaked. Boat and crew sat motionless
on the sea. Instantly the three spread boats in the rear paused on
 I belonged to this uncommonly prudent
Starbuck's boat; and finally considering in what a devil's chase I was
implicated, touching the White Whale: taking all things together, I
say, I thought I might as well go below and make a rough draft of my
will. "Queequeg," said I, "come along, you shall be my lawyer,
executor, and legatee."
  It may seem strange that of all men sa
   not one word to our own look-outs, while the quarter-deck hail
was being heard from below.
  "Ship ahoy! Have ye seen the White Whale?"
  But as the strange captain, leaning over the pallid bulwarks, was in
the act of putting his trumpet to his mouth, it somehow fell from
his hand into the sea; and the wind now rising amain, he in vain
strove to make himself heard without it. Meantime his ship was still
increasing the distance between us. While in various silent ways the
seamen of the Pequod were evincing their observance of this ominous
incident at the first mere mention of the White Whale's name to
another ship, Ahab for a moment paused; it almost seemed as though
he would have lowered a boat to board the stranger, had not the
threatening wind forbade. But taking advantage of his windward
his voice for the monster, though for some little time past it had
been plainly beheld from the three sullen mast-heads. All was now a
phrensy. 'The White Whale- the White Whale!' was the cry from captain,
mates, and harpooneers, who, undeterred by fearful rumours, were all
anxious to capture so famous and precious a fish; while the dogged
ng once more, with a stiletto-like cry that startled every
man from his nod, the negro yelled out- "There! there again! there she
breaches! right ahead! The White Whale, the White Whale!"
  Upon this, the seamen rushed to the yard-arms, as in swarming-time
the bees rush to the boughs. Bare-headed in the sultry sun, Ahab stood
on the bowsprit, and with one hand pushed far behind in readiness to
that instant a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead, and its
seethings drowned all speech.
  "Hast thou seen the White Whale?" demanded Ahab, when the boat
drifted back.
speaking a whale-ship, her people were reliably apprised of the
existence of Moby Dick, and the havoc he had made. Greedily sucking in
this intelligence, Gabriel solemnly warned the captain against
attacking the White Whale, in case the monster should be seen; in
his gibbering insanity, pronouncing the White Whale to be no less a
being than the Shaker God incarnated; the Shakers receiving the Bible.
But when, some year or two afterwards, Moby Dick was fairly sighted
  Mayhew having concluded his narration, Ahab put such questions to
him, that the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring whether
he intended to hunt the White Whale, if opportunity should offer. To
which Ahab answered- "Aye." Straightway, then, Gabriel once more
started to his feet, glaring upon the old man, and vehemently
exclaimed, with downward pointed finger- "Think, think of the
blasphemer- dead, and down there!- beware of the blasphemer's end!"
  As he mounted the deck, Ahab abruptly accosted him, without at all
heeding what he had in his hand; but in his broken lingo, the German
soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale; immediately
turning the conversation to his lamp-feeder and oil can, with some
remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in
  "Yes," rejoined a Guernsey-man from the bulwarks, who turned out
to be the chief-mate.
  "Well, then, my Bouton-de-Rose-bud, have you seen the White Whale?"
  "What whale?"
  "The White Whale- a Sperm Whale- Moby Dick, have ye seen him?
  "Never heard of such a whale. Cachalot Blanche! White Whale- no."
  "Very good, then; good bye now, and I'll call again in a minute."
  Then rapidly pulling back towards the Pequod, and seeing Ahab
  left it. For it was set apart and sanctified to one awe-striking
end; and however wanton in their sailor ways, one and all, the
mariners revered it as the white whale's talisman. Sometimes they
talked it over in the weary watch by night, wondering whose it was
to be at last, and whether he would ever live to spend it.
  Now those noble golden coins of South America are as medals of the
  and now he's back again; what does that mean? Hark! he's muttering-
voice like an old worn-out coffee-mill. Prick ears, and listen!"
  "If the White Whale be raised, it must be in a month and a day, when
the sun stands in some one of these signs. I've studied signs, and
know their marks; they were taught me two score years ago, by the
ha! old Ahab! the White Whale; he'll nail ye! This is a pine tree.
My father, in old Tolland county, cut down a pine tree once, and found
a silver ring grown over in it; some old darkey's wedding ring. How
did it get there? And so they'll say in the resurrection, when they
come to fish up this old mast, and find a doubloon lodged in it,
with bedded oysters for the shaggy bark. Oh, the gold! the precious,
precious gold!- the green miser'll hoard ye soon! Hish! hish! God goes
'mong the worlds blackberrying. Cook! ho, cook! and cook us! Jenny!
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Jenny, Jenny! and get your hoe-cake done!"
  CHAPTER 100
  Leg and Arm
  The Pequod of Nantucket, Meets the Samuel Enderby, of London

  "Ship, ahoy! Hast seen the White Whale?"
  So cried Ahab, once more hailing a ship showing English colors,
bearing down under the stern. Trumpet to mouth, the old man was
standing in his hoisted quarter-deck, his ivory leg plainly revealed
to the stranger captain, who was carelessly reclining in his own
boat's bow. He was a darkly-tanned, burly, goodnatured, fine-looking
man, of sixty or thereabouts, dressed in a spacious roundabout, that
hung round him in festoons of blue pilot-cloth; and one empty arm of
his jacket streamed behind him like the broidered arm of a huzzar's
surcoat.
  "Hast seen the White Whale!"
  "See you this?" and withdrawing it from the folds that had hidden
it, he held up a white arm of sperm whale bone, terminating in a
leg, and crossing the ivory arm (like two sword-fish blades) cried out
in his walrus way, "Aye, aye, hearty! let us shake bones together!- an
arm and a leg!- an arm that never can shrink, d'ye see; and a leg that
never can run. Where did'st thou see the White Whale?- how long ago?"
  "The White Whale," said the Englishman, pointing his ivory arm
towards the East, and taking a rueful sight along it, as if it had
been a telescope; "there I saw him, on the Line, last season."
  "And he took that arm off, did he?" asked Ahab, now sliding down
from the capstan, and resting on the Englishman's shoulder, as he
did so.
  "Aye, he was the cause of it, at least; and that leg, too?"
  "Spin me the yarn," said Ahab; "how was it?"
  "It was the first time in my life that I ever cruised on the
Line," began the Englishman. "I was ignorant of the White Whale at
that time. Well, one day we lowered for a pod of four or five
whales, and my boat fastened to one of them; a regular circus horse he
rascal."
  "What became of the White Whale?" now cried Ahab, who thus far had
been impatiently listening to this byeplay between the two Englishmen.
  "Oh!" cried the one-armed captain, "oh, yes! Well; after he sounded,
we didn't see him again for some time; in fact, as I before hinted,
I didn't then know what whale it was that had served me such a
trick, till some time afterwards, when coming back to the Line, we
heard about Moby Dick- as some call him- and then I knew it was he."
  "Did'st thou cross his wake again?"
  "Twice."
  "But could not fasten?"
  "Didn't want to try to; ain't one limb enough? What should I do
without this other arm? And I'm thinking Moby Dick doesn't bite so
much as he swallows."
  "Well, then," interrupted Bunger, "give him your left arm for bait
to get the right. Do you know, gentlemen"- very gravely and
mathematically bowing to each Captain in succession- "Do you know,
gentlemen, that the digestive organs of the whale are so inscrutably
constructed by Divine Providence, that it is quite impossible for
him to completely digest even a man's arm? And he knows it too. So
that what you take for the White Whale's malice is only his
awkwardness. For he never means to swallow a single limb; he only
  "Pray God, not that; yet I fear something, Captain Ahab. Is not this
harpoon for the White Whale?"
  "For the white fiend! But now for the barbs; thou must make them
thyself, man. Here are my razors- the best of steel; here, and make
the barbs sharp as the needle-sleet of the Icy Sea."
  For a moment, the old blacksmith eyed the razors as though he
would fain not use them.
  "Take them, man, I have no need for them; for I now neither shave,
sup, nor pray till- but here- to work!"
  Fashioned at last into an arrowy shape, and welded by Perth to the
shank, the steel soon pointed the end of the iron; and as the
blacksmith was about giving the barbs their final heat, prior to
tempering them, he cried to Ahab to place the water-cask near.
  "No, no- no water for that; I want it of the true death-temper.
Ahoy, there! Tashtego, Queequeg, Daggoo! What say ye, pagans! Will
ye give me as much blood as will cover this barb?" holding it high up.
A cluster of dark nods replied, Yes. Three punctures were made in
the heathen flesh, and the White Whale's barbs were then tempered.
  "Ego non baptizo te in nomine patris, sed in nomine diaboli!"
deliriously howled Ahab, as the malignant iron scorchingly devoured
the baptismal blood.
  "Hast seen the White Whale?" gritted Ahab in reply.
  "No; only heard of him; but don't believe in him at all," said the
other good-humoredly. "Come aboard!"
  "Aye, aye, men!" cried Ahab. "Look up at it; mark it well; the white
flame but lights the way to the White Whale! Hand me those mainmast
links there; I would fain feel this pulse, and let mine beat against
it; blood against fire! So."
  "All your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine;
and heart, soul, and body, lungs and life, old Ahab is bound. And that
ye may know to what tune this heart beats: look ye here; thus I blow
out the last fear!" And with one blast of his breath he extinguished
the flame.
  And thus the first man of the Pequod that mounted the mast to look
out for the White Whale, on the White Whale's own peculiar ground;
that man was swallowed up in the deep. But few, perhaps, thought of
that at the time. Indeed, in some sort, they were not grieved at
this event, at least as a portent; for they regarded it, not as a
fore-shadowing of evil in the future, but as the fulfilment of an evil
already presaged. They declared that now they knew the reason of those
wild shrieks they had heard the night before. But again the old
Manxman said nay.
  "Bad news; she brings bad news," muttered the old Manxman. But ere
her commander, who, with trumpet to mouth, stood up in his boat; ere
he could hopefully hail, Ahab's voice was heard.
  "Hast seen the White Whale?"
  "Aye, yesterday. Have ye seen a whale-boat adrift?"
  with various ships contrastingly concurred to show the demoniac
indifference with which the white whale tore his hunters, whether
sinning or sinned against; now it was that there lurked a something in
the old man's eyes, which it was hardly sufferable for feeble souls to
see. As the unsetting polar star, which through the livelong,
  "Hast seen the White Whale?"
  "Look!" replied the hollow-cheeked captain from his taffrail; and
with his trumpet he pointed to the wreck.
  "Hast killed him?"
  "The harpoon is not yet forged that ever will do that," answered the
other, sadly glancing upon a rounded hammock on the deck, whose
gathered sides some noiseless sailors were busy in sewing together.
  "Not forged!" and snatching Perth's levelled iron from the crotch,
Ahab held it out, exclaiming- "Look ye, Nantucketer; here in this hand
I hold his death! Tempered in blood, and tempered by lightning are
these barbs; and I swear to temper them triply in that hot place
behind the fin, where the White Whale most feels his accursed life!"
  "Then God keep thee, old man- see'st thou that"- pointing to the
  I cried out," said Tashtego.
  "Not the same instant; not the same- no, the doubloon is mine,
Fate reserved the doubloon for me. I only; none of ye could have
raised the White Whale first. There she blows!- there she blows!-
there she blows! There again!- there again!" he cried, in
long-drawn, lingering, methodic tones, attuned to the gradual
prolongings of the whale's visible jets. "He's going to sound! In
bubbles arose and danced by his side. But these were broken again by
the light toes of hundreds of gay fowls softly feathering the sea,
alternate with their fitful flight; and like to some flag-staff rising
from the painted hull of an argosy, the tall but shattered pole of a
recent lance projected from the white whale's back; and at intervals
one of the cloud of soft-toed fowls hovering, and to and fro
skimming like a canopy over the fish, silently perched and rocked on
this pole, the long tail feathers streaming like pennons.
  A gentle joyousness- a mighty mildness of repose in swiftness,
  clinging crew, at the other drifting end, could not succor him; more
than enough was it for them to look to themselves. For so
revolvingly appalling was the White Whale's aspect, and so planetarily
swift the ever-contracting circles he made, that he seemed
horizontally swooping upon them. And though the other boats, unharmed,
still hovered hard by; still they dared not pull into the eddy to
strike, lest that should be the signal for the instant destruction
of the jeopardized castaways, Ahab and all; nor in that case could
they themselves hope to escape. With straining eyes, then, they
remained on the outer edge of the direful zone, whose centre had now
become the old man's head.
  Meantime, from the beginning all this had been descried from the
ship's mast heads; and squaring her yards, she had borne down upon the
scene; and was now so nigh, that Ahab in the water hailed her!-
"Sail on the"- but that moment a breaking sea dashed on him from
Moby Dick, and whelmed him for the time. But struggling out of it
again, and chancing to rise on a towering crest, he shouted,- "Sail on
the whale!- Drive him off!"
  The Pequod's prows were pointed-, and breaking up the charmed
circle, she effectually parted the white whale from his victim. As
he sullenly swam off, the boats flew to the rescue.
  Dragged into Stubb's boat with blood-shot, blinded eyes, the white
brine caking in his wrinkles; the long tension of Ahab's bodily
  "Good! he will travel slower now 'tis night. Down royals and
top-gallant stunsails, Mr. Starbuck. We must not run over him before
morning; he's making a passage now, and may heave-to a while. Helm
there! keep her full before the wind!- Aloft! come down!- Mr. Stubb,
send a fresh hand to the fore-mast head, and see it manned till
morning."- Then advancing towards the doubloon in the main-mast- "Men,
this gold is mine, for I earned it; but I shall let it abide here till
the White Whale is dead; and then, whosoever of ye first raises him,
upon the day he shall be killed, this gold is that man's; and if on
that day I shall again raise him, then, ten times its sum shall be
divided among all of ye! Away now! the deck is thine, sir!"
  And so saying, he placed himself half way within the scuttle, and
slouching his hat, stood there till dawn, except when at intervals
rousing himself to see how the night wore on.
  It was even so; in their headlong eagerness, the men had mistaken
some other thing for the whale-spout, as the event itself soon proved;
for hardly had Ahab reached his perch; hardly was the rope belayed
to its pin on deck, when he struck the key-note to an orchestra,
that made the air vibrate as with the combined discharge of rifles.
The triumphant halloo of thirty buckskin lungs was heard, as- much
nearer to the ship than the place of the imaginary jet, less than a
mile ahead- Moby Dick bodily burst into view! For not by any calm
and indolent spoutings; not by the peaceable gush of that mystic
fountain in his head, did the White Whale now reveal his vicinity; but
by the far more wondrous phenomenon of breaching. Rising with his
utmost velocity from the furthest depths, the Sperm Whale thus booms
his entire bulk into the pure element of air, and piling up a mountain
of dazzling foam, shows his place to the distance of seven miles and
more. In those moments, the torn, enraged waves he shakes off, seem
his mane; in some cases, this breaching is his act of defiance.
  "There she breaches! there she breaches!" was the cry, as in his
immeasurable bravadoes the White Whale tossed himself salmon-like to
Heaven. So suddenly seen in the blue plain of the sea, and relieved
against the still bluer margin of the sky, the spray that he raised,
for the moment, intolerably glittered and glared like a glacier; and
stood there gradually fading and fading away from its first
sparkling intensity, to the dim mistiness of an advancing shower in
a vale.
a certain limit, such a course excludes the coming onset from the
whale's sidelong vision. But ere that close limit was gained, and
while yet all three boats were plain as the ship's three masts to
his eye; the White Whale churning himself into furious speed, almost
in an instant as it were, rushing among the boats with open jaws,
and a lashing tail, offered appalling battle on every side; and
heedless of the iron darted at him from every boat, seemed only intent
on annihilating each separate plank of which those boats were made.
But skilfully manoeuvred, incessantly wheeling like trained chargers
in the field; the boats for a while eluded him; though, at times,
but by a plank's breadth; while all the time, Ahab's unearthly
slogan tore every other cry but his to shreds.
  But at last in his untraceable evolutions, the White Whale so
crossed and recrossed, and in a thousand ways entangled the slack of
the three lines now fast to him, that they foreshortened, and, of
while the old man's line- now parting- admitted of his pulling into
the creamy pool to rescue whom he could;- in that wild
simultaneousness of a thousand concreted perils,- Ahab's yet
unstricken boat seemed drawn up towards Heaven by invisible wires,-
as, arrow-like, shooting perpendicularly from the sea, the White Whale
dashed his broad forehead against its bottom, and sent it turning over
and over, into the air; till it fell again- gunwale down- and Ahab and
his men struggled out from under it, like seals from a sea-side cave.
  The first uprising momentum of the whale- modifying its direction as
he struck the surface- involuntarily launched him along it, to a
  "My line! my line? Gone?- gone? What means that little word?- What
death-knell rings in it, that old Ahab shakes as if he were the
belfry. The harpoon, too!- toss over the litter there,- d'ye see
it?- the forged iron, men, the white whale's- no, no, no,- listered
fool! this hand did dart it!- 'tis in the fish!- Aloft there! Keep him
nailed-Quick!- all hands to the rigging of the boats- collect the
oars- harpooneers! the irons, the irons!- hoist royals higher- a
pull on all the sheets!- helm there! steady, steady for your life!
I'll ten times girdle the unmeasured globe; yea and dive straight
through it, but I'll slay him yet!
sand-hills of Nantucket! The same- the same!- the same to Noah as to
me. There's a soft shower to leeward. Such lovely leewardings! They
must lead somewhere- to something else than common land, more palmy
than the palms. Leeward! the white whale goes that way; look to
windward, then; the better if the bitterer quarter. But good bye, good
bye, old mast-head! What's this?- green? aye, tiny mosses in these
warped cracks. No such green weather stains on Ahab's head! There's
the difference now between man's old age and matter's. But aye, old
hammer and nails, and so nail it to the mast.
  Whether fagged by the three days' running chase, and the
resistance to his swimming in the knotted hamper he bore; or whether
it was some latent deceitfulness and malice in him: whichever was
true, the White Whale's way now began to abate, as it seemed, from the
boat so rapidly nearing him once more; though indeed the whale's
last start had not been so long a one as before. And still as Ahab
glided over the waves the unpitying sharks accompanied him; and so
pertinaciously stuck to the boat; and so continually bit at the plying
oars, that the blades became jagged and crunched, and left small
splinters in the sea, at almost every dip.
  "Heed them not! those teeth but give new rowlocks to your oars. Pull
on! 'tis the better rest, the sharks' jaw than the yielding water."
  "But at every bite, sir, the thin blades grow smaller and smaller!"
  "They will last long enough! pull on!- But who can tell"- he
muttered- "whether these sharks swim to feast on the whale or on
Ahab?- But pull on! Aye, all alive, now- we near him. The helm! take
the helm! let me pass,"- and so saying two of the oarsmen helped him
forward to the bows of the still flying boat.
  At length as the craft was cast to one side, and ran ranging along
with the White Whale's flank, he seemed strangely oblivious of its
advance- as the whale sometimes will- and Ahab was fairly within the
smoky mountain mist, which, thrown off from the whale's spout,
  Almost simultaneously, with a mighty volition of ungraduated,
instantaneous swiftness, the White Whale darted through the
weltering sea. But when Ahab cried out to the steersman to take new
turns with the line, and hold it so; and commanded the crew to turn
round on their seats, and tow the boat up to the mark; the moment
the treacherous line felt that double strain and tug, it snapped in
the empty air!